Well, I found a better way to do things,
is just write a contract and
let's just see how much the gas costs.
So I'm gonna do something really quickly.
I'm just gonna write a couple functions,
we're gonna look at them and
we're gonna see how expensive
they kind of operate.
On top of that we're gonna use this
cool thing called hardhat-gas-reporter.
So I'm gonna take this, I'm gonna copy it.
Again, score is going northward.
At this point, buy the stocks,
buy the options, we're going so fast.
So we're gonna add a bunch of
new libraries to our contract,
and there we go, awesome.
And then I'm gonna add this
line to my hardhat config.
By adding these import
statements to the config,
what ends up happening is that
when we execute MPX hardhat,
it grabs the config, it loads it and
thus loads in these libraries as well.
So let's go back in here, let's go into
hardhat, go to the top, paste it in.
Now remember this part you don't have to
do I'm just doing it if you want to do it,
awesome, you can follow along but
I'm gonna move quick enough that we
can make time for the other parts.
All right, there we go.
So now I'm gonna just open up a contract
and I'm gonna create TestGas.sol,
I'm gonna do the pregma statement.
Thank you Tap9 for completing it for me.
And I'm gonna do contract TestGas,
I'm gonna do a quick uint a, and
I'm gonna create three items
on the contract, right?
b, c and
I'm gonna create a function test 1,
and it's gonna be public,
I'm simply gonna go a++.
We're just gonna increment
something that exists on the chain.
We're gonna save, we're gonna
read one word and save one word,
cuz that's what's happening.
A word of course is 256 bits.
Word tends to be the phrase people use to
describe the size of the architecture.
So a word on a therium is that.
So test 2 is gonna be two increments.
Test 3 of course will be three
increments and then we can do one more,
test test 4,
I don't know why it didn't just copy and
paste this public and
we're gonna go c equals a plus b.
Do a little bit more reading
than writing and then we'll do,
let's call that one 4 and
then let's do one more where we call,
Let's call test 4, and
then do b equals c plus 8.
Do like a little extra.
Do actual function invocation
plus the same thing we did in 4.
So we can kinda see what
does it cost to say,
call a function as we're doing right here.
Cuz if we just compare the difference
between these two, we can see that.
Here, we can kinda see the growth
of gas as we call these.
So now along with our hardhat reporter,
all we need to do now
is just create a test.
So how the hardhat reporter works,
I'm gonna delete hello world,
TestGas.ts paste this in.
Test gas, test why not?
We're gonna go in here and I'm gonna
just rename this thing to gas why not,
do a couple renaming and
effectively what I am doing here is
I'm gonna deploy your gas contract and
now we're just gonna call those functions
but I'm gonna call them in the loop.
The reason being is that the first time
you write to the network on a non written
spot it's more expensive because at
that point it doesn't have anything
in that position.
So it actually has to underneath
the hood create a kind of a key value so
can look at up later on.
And this will become more
obvious in a little bit.
But for now, just remember that.
I just remember I don't have a remap,
there we go.
All right, perfect.
So I'm gonna go 4, let i = 0,
i has to be less than 10, why not?
So we're gonna do it 10 times, and
then we're gonna just simply do this,
gas await gas.test 1, There we go,
we have all five of our tests, right?
I think that's what we did.
Let's just make sure we have that.
So let's see.
Yeap, there we go.
Test 4-5, there we go.
So now I'm gonna test take this,
I'm gonna go npx hardhat test.
Now we have that little gas reporter.
So what that gas report is gonna do
is it's actually gonna go through and
give us a bunch of information.
So let me make this a little bit smaller.
So you'll notice that test 1
on average took 28,000 gas.
Meaning that writing to a single
variable cost that much.
Now for whatever reason, as we wrote more,
it did seem to scale at a linear rate but
it wasn't as expensive as 28,000, right?
It looks like it cost
about 5000 at a time.
And so you can kinda use this to start
guessing how expensive are these functions
gonna be.
We can do the same thing here,
a couple reads plus a right is obviously
more expensive than this, right?
But it doesn't seem to be
that much more expensive.
A function invocation guessing
by this is about 500 gas used.
Because test 4 and 5, the only difference
was executing an extra round and
just doing a function invocation.
So for whatever reason it
looks like the more you write,
it doesn't seem to be as expensive.
Now part of that reason is that what
aethalium does is it comes in it has
the state of your contract,
you do a bunch of things to that contract.
When it succeeds, it writes all those
state changes back to it because it needs
to be able to revert just in
case something goes wrong.
Which means that the more things you
write into obviously the cheaper it is
because you're doing a bunch of state
change transactions in a single spot, and
it doesn't actually write back
those changes to the end.
And so that's why you can see that it did
not scale as fast as you thought it would.
I would expect it to be
28,000 then like 56,000 and
then it goes up way faster but it doesn't.
And then this one is even more telling in
the sense that we actually call a function
that costs 30,000 by itself,
but calling that function plus doing
the same thing only cost slightly more.
Cuz we're reading and
writing to the same variables a punch.
And so that's kinda how you gotta look
at gas, I highly recommend getting this
cuz it's gonna give you
a lot of information, right?
It's gonna say, hey, this is pretty much
how much it cost to deploy your contract
so we can take that and go, okay, so
if I wanna deploy my contract, I need
to take this times 4000 times say the cost
of gas right now divided by 10 to the 9.
And to deploy this contract it's gonna
take us approximately $15 to have this
test contract on the main net.
And so it's good to be able
to go through that and
kind of estimate what
things are gonna cost.
And gas is really confusing.
It's hard to find any articles that
make any sort of sense about it.
So that is as best as I can do with
the exploration that I have done.
I bet you there's a better
explanation that exists out there,
it's just that you try to read anything
and it's super just non-straightforward.
And so that's how I effectively
got the best I could.
Is by just doing more empirical
evidence as opposed to,
here's theoretically what's happening.
All right, so some key takeaways.
Everything costs money, be careful.
The second one is that a lot of people
come from a JavaScript like world or
a very functional world where copying
is like pretty cool, don't copy,
it's expensive.
Everything you do cost money, right?
You have to be like so much different
mindset in solidity than you would in any
other language because everything
you do is so expensive.
So if you had an array, and
let's say we wanted to walk this array,
and we wanted to like pull out things we
liked, would we pull out those things and
actually do a splice and
remove it from the array?
No, that'd be super duper expensive
cuz then you'd have to adjust
all the other elements.
You try to do as little as possible,
right?
You have to become really smart and we're
actually gonna to do that here shortly but
trying to think of things in the smartest
possible way doing the littlest amount of
mutation is the best possible kind
of route when it comes to this.
And for me that's obviously a hard
place if you're coming from more of
a loosey-goosey world where
everything's fine, right?
If you're fine executing
a react to reconcile,
you're probably fine with a lot
of compute cycles happening.
Whereas here you just don't
get that opportunity.